---
grand_parent: Resources
parent: Concepts
title: Vocabulary
description: The set of supported words
---

The **vocabulary** of a model is the set of supported words.
In a machine translation system, the vocabulary may refer to the set of words supported in either the input or the output.
A word that's supported in the output is a word that can be generated by the translation model.
A word that's supported in the input is a word that can be translated.

Typically the vocabulary is created from [training data](/customisation/training-data.md) by retaining the most frequent `N` words in the source and target language.
Words that are not in the vocabulary are called out-of-vocabulary (OOV).

The vocabulary of a language is the set of all possible words in the language.

The vocabulary of a pretrained [word embedding model](/concepts/word-embeddings.md) is the set of all words with defined embeddings.

## Challenges

- A large vocabulary will allow the system to learn to translate more words, but makes the model much larger and slower.
- In [neural machine translation](/approaches/neural-machine-translation.md), it can be challenging to share the vocabulary between the decoder inputs and decoder outputs.
- If pretrained word embeddings are used, the vocabulary is already determined and not trivial to update with new data.
- Open-class words present challenges, such as proper names and numbers.
- Agglutinative and highly inflected languages have very large vocabularies, and may require massive amounts of training data to observe enough of the vocabulary.

## Dependencies

- The vocabulary is affected by choice of [tokenisation algorithm](/customisation/tokenisation.md) or the use of subword models such as [byte-pair encoding](/approaches/byte-pair-encoding.md). In the case of byte-pair encoding, this can cause vocabulary size to become a hyperparameter that affects the generalization of the model.
- The vocabulary is affected by normalization of capitalization and accents.
