---
parent: Events
title: AMTA 2022
description: Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas
location: Orlando, Florida, United States of America
name: AMTA 2022
startDate: 2022-09-12
endDate: 2022-09-16
---

The fifteenth Biennial Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas (**[AMTA](/associations/amta.md) 2022**) will be hosted in Orlando (Florida) and online from 12 September to 16 September, 2022.

[AMTA2022](https://amtaweb.org/amta-2022-announcing-the-1-machine-translation-conference-as-a-hybrid-event/)

AMTA 2022 will provide parallel sessions addressing a variety of topics. There will be outstanding keynote talks and panels by recognized MT experts, fresh demonstrations of the latest offerings from MT providers, relevant tutorials for both beginners and more experienced practitioners in MT, and in-depth workshops for specialist participants.

Students interested in MT and computational linguistics will be able to connect with academic and industry mentors.

## Call for papers

### Conference tracks

#### Research

Chairs: Kevin Duh, Francisco Guzman (mtresearchers@amtaweb.org)

> We seek submissions across the entire spectrum of MT-related research, but with a particular focus on the conference’s strength: the close interaction between researchers and practitioners who are looking to apply the latest MT technology to their tasks.

Topics:

- Advances in data-driven MT (e.g., neural, statistical)
- Lexicon acquisition and integration into MT
- MT for low resource languages
- Model distillation, compression, and on-device MT
- MT in production scenarios, robustness and deployment issues.
- MT for multiple modalities (speech, optical character recognition)
- MT for communication (chats, blogs, social networks)
- Few-shot adaptation of pre-trained MT systems
- Deep integration of MT technology within translation and localization pipelines
- Large-scale mining of translation resources
- Computer Assisted Translation (CAT)
- MT evaluation
- Measuring fairness, bias, transparency in translation
- Detecting and preventing catastrophic errors in translation
- Best practices in annotation for translation
- Other

> We invite original, substantial, and unpublished research in all aspects of machine translation (MT).

Submission requirements:

- Maximum 10-page paper (unlimited for reference pages)
- Follow the style guides ([PDF version](https://amtaweb.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/amta2022.pdf), [LaTeX version](https://amtaweb.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/AMTA-2022-Template.zip), [MS Word version](https://amtaweb.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/amta2022.docx)) and submit in PDF format
- Do not include author names and affiliations
- Represent new work that has not been previously published

> Authors submitting a similar paper to another conference or workshop must specify this at submission time; if the paper is accepted to multiple venues, the author must choose which one to present at.

- Papers must be submitted via the [Submission website](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/User/Login?ReturnUrl=%2FAMTA2022)

#### Users and providers

Chairs: Janice Campbell, Jay Marciano, Konstantin Savenkov, Alex Yanishevsky (mtusers-providers@amtaweb.org)

> This track is intended for users, providers, and developers of machine translation, as well as professional translators and Language Service Providers, to present novel, original, and unpublished applications of machine translation technology or specific commercial use cases.

> We seek submissions for 15-20-minute presentations (including a few minutes for questions and discussion) concerning the use of MT and/or related tools, processes, and technologies to support business goals and serve the customer or user in commercial settings.

Topics:

- Domain adaptation and customization of MT models: commercial customization platforms, implementation of open frameworks, and comparison of methodologies used to adapt and customize baseline engines.
- Data preparation: data sources, extraction, alignment, and cleaning of corpora, terminology, data augmentation, metadata extraction, working with data drift.
- MT for low-resource languages: language pairs with limited data; cross-dialect and cross-domain translation.
- Comparison and evaluation of MT systems: with respect to business, technical and linguistic requirements.
- MT output quality and confidence scoring: tools, methods, and metrics, such as human evaluations, automatic scoring, and MTQE.
- Advanced MT fine-tuning and enhancement: including pre- and post-processing; controlling style, tone of voice, gender, pseudonymisation; automatic post-editing (APE).
- Interactive and real-time adaptive MT systems: including advanced approaches to leverage TM and end-user feedback.
- MT Post-Editing: New approaches to MTPE, success and failure stories, applicability to different content-types, MTPE training, defining fair pricing models and working with translation buyers and providers.
- Technical challenges to MT adoption: file format and tag support, integration, security, performance, data protection, profanity filters, locality, and compliance.
- Business Cases: making the business case for adopting MT to drive business requirements, expand markets and engage with customers. Post-edited MT, real-time MT, cross-language information retrieval.
- Augmenting MT with ML and NLP: classification, context awareness, content moderation, sentiment analysis, OCR, ASR, and TTS.
- Source text improvement: improving the source content destined for MT through automatic tools such as grammar correction, guidelines, and NLP.
- Video localization: MT usage in video localization workflows, including captioning, subtitling, and voiceovers.
- Other

Submission requirements:

- Abstract: 250 to 500-word
- Presenter(s) biography: 100 word or less
- Do not do a “sales pitch”
- Format papers (optional) according to the Research Track Submission Instructions and on the camera-ready date
- Slide decks (optional) should be submitted as PDFs on the camera-ready date
- Submit abstract, papers, and slide decks in the [Submission website](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/User/Login?ReturnUrl=%2FAMTA2022)

> The focus should be on innovative MT technology, processes, and real-world use cases, rather than on a particular product or offering.

#### Government

Chair: Steve LaRocca (govtmtusers@amtaweb.org)

> This track is intended for users, providers, and developers of machine translation involved in the government sector to present novel, original, and unpublished applications of machine translation and related human language technologies.

> We seek submissions for 15-20-minute presentations (including a few minutes for questions and discussion) concerning the use of MT and/or related tools, processes, and technologies to support business goals and serve the customer or user in commercial settings.

Topics:

- Advancements in continuous learning for MT and NLP
- Government research programs for MT and related technologies
- Online MT for lectures and training
- MT for low resource languages
- Model distillation, compression, and on-device MT
- End-to-end models for speech to translated text or speech
- Advances in transfer learning with pre-trained models
- Advances in OCR and handwriting recognition

Submission requirements:

- 250 to 500-word abstract
- 100 word or less biography
- Do not do a “sales pitch”
- Papers (optional) should be formatted according to the Research Track Submission Instructions
- Slide decks (optional) should be submitted as PDFs
- Final versions of papers and slide decks are due on the camera-ready date
- Submit abstract, papers, and slide decks in the [Submission website](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/User/Login?ReturnUrl=%2FAMTA2022)

> The focus should be on innovative MT technology, processes, and real-world use cases, rather than on a particular product or offering.


### Workshop and tutorial proposals

Chairs: Jay Marciano, Kenton Murray (tutorials@amtaweb.org or workshops@amtaweb.org)

#### Tutorials

> Tutorials are a forum for experts in MT and MT-related areas to deliver concentrated training on a topic of interest in half-day teaching sessions. Tutorials help conference participants enrich their understanding of specific technical, applied, and business matters surrounding research, development and use of MT and associated technologies, or, in the case of tutorials designed for newcomers, provide background information that facilitates greater understanding of the overall conference program.

Submission requirements:

- Tutorial title
- 250-500 word tutorial description
- Short (<100 words) biographical introduction of the presenter(s)
- Technical requirements (if any)
- Scanned signed copy of the Tutorial Policy and Leader Agreement Form
- Submit by e-mail at tutorials@amtaweb.org

#### Workshops

> AMTA workshops are intended to provide the opportunity for MT-related communities of interest to spend focused time together advancing the state of thinking or the state of practice in their area of interest or endeavor. Workshops are generally scheduled as full-day events.

Submission requirements:

- Workshop title
- 250-500 word workshop description
- Clarify whether this is an ongoing or new workshop
- Short (<100 words) biographical introduction to the presenter(s)
- Expected number of participants
- Dates for important milestones (call for papers, recruitment of speakers, etc.)
- Technical requirements (if any)
- A scanned signed copy of the Workshop Policy and Leader Agreement Form.
- Submit by e-mail at tutorials@amtaweb.org

#### Important dates

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| Track presentation proposals submission deadline | 6 June 2022 |
| Tutorial proposals submission deadline | 6 June 2022 |
| Workshop proposals submission deadline | 6 May 2022 |
| Notification of acceptance | 18 July 2022 |
| Final “camera-ready” versions | 8 August 2022 |
