---
parent: Events
title: EAMT2022
description: Conference of the European Association of Machine Translation
location: Ghent, Belgium
name: EAMT2022
startDate: 2022-06-01
endDate: 2022-06-03
---

The 23rd Annual Conference of the **European Association of Machine Translation 2022** (**[EAMT](/associations/eamt.md) 2022**) will be hosted in Ghent from 1 June to 3 June, 2022.

The event is organized by CrossLang and LT3 (University of Ghent).

[EAMT2022](https://eamt2022.com/)


### Call for papers

*Last updated from https://eamt2022.com/ on December 31st, 2021*

The European Association for Machine Translation (EAMT) invites everyone interested in machine translation and translation-related tools and resources ― developers, researchers, users, translation and localisation professionals and managers ― to participate in this conference.

Driven by the state-of-the-art, the research community will demonstrate their cutting-edge research and results.

Professional machine translation users will provide insight into successful MT implementation of machine translation (MT) in business scenarios as well as implementation scenarios involving large corporations, governments or NGOs.

Translation studies scholars and translation practitioners are also invited to share their first-hand MT experience, which will be addressed during a special track.

Manuscripts are expected to fall in these four categories:

- **(R) Research Papers** (up to 10 pages, including references)

    - Deep-learning approaches for MT and MT evaluation;
    - Advances in classical MT paradigms: statistical, rule-based, and hybrid approaches;
    - Comparison of various MT approaches;
    - Technologies for MT deployment: quality estimation, domain adaptation, etc.;
    - MT in special settings: low resources, massive resources, high volume, low computing resources;
    - MT applications: translation/localisation aids, speech-to-speech, speech-to-text, optical character recognition, MT for user generated content (blogs, social networks), MT in Computer-aided language learning, etc.;
    - Linguistic resources for MT: dictionaries, terminology, corpora, etc.;
    - MT evaluation techniques, metrics, and evaluation results;
    - Human factors in MT and user interfaces;
    - Related multilingual technologies: natural language generation, information retrieval, text categorization, text summarization, information extraction, etc.

Papers should describe original work. They should emphasize completed work rather than intended work, and should indicate clearly the state of completion of the reported results. Where appropriate, concrete evaluation results should be included.

Papers should be anonymised, prepared according to the templates specified below and no longer than 10 pages (including references); the resulting PDFs submitted to [EasyChair EAMT 2022](https://easychair.org/account/signin?l=fy2cUipEkkWabcBD82YuJU#) page (submission type: EAMT2022 Research)


- **(U) User Studies** (up to 10 pages, including references)

    - Integrating MT and computer-assisted translation into a translation production workflow (e.g. transforming terminology glossaries into MT resources, optimizing translation memory/MT thresholds, mixing online and offline tools, using interactive MT, dealing with MT confidence scores);
    - Use of MT to improve translation or localisation workflows (e.g. reducing turnaround times, improving translation consistency, increasing the scope of globalisation projects);
    - Managing change when implementing and using MT (e.g. switching between multiple MT systems, limiting degradations when updating or upgrading an MT system);
    - Implementing open-source MT in the SME or enterprise (e.g. strategies to get support, reports on taking pilot results into full deployment, examples of advanced customisation sought and obtained thanks to the open-source paradigm, collaboration within open-source MT projects);
    - Evaluating MT in a real-world setting (e.g. error detection strategies employed, metrics used, productivity or translation quality gains achieved);
    - Post-editing strategies and tools (e.g. limitations of traditional translation quality assurance tools, challenges associated with post-editing guidelines);
    - Legal issues associated with MT, especially MT in the cloud (e.g. copyright, privacy);
    - Using MT in social networking or real-time communication (e.g. enterprise support chat, multilingual content for social media);
    - Implementing MT to process multilingual content for assimilation purposes (e.g. cross-lingual information retrieval, MT for e-discovery or spam detection, MT for highly dynamic content);
    - Implementing MT standards.

Papers should highlight problems and solutions in addition to describing MT integration processes and project settings. Where solutions do not seem to exist, suggestions for MT researchers and developers should be clearly emphasized. For user papers produced by academics, we require co-authorship with the actual users.

Papers should be formatted according to the templates specified below, no longer than 10 pages (including references), and submitted as PDF files to the [EasyChair EAMT 2022](https://easychair.org/account/signin?l=fy2cUipEkkWabcBD82YuJU#) page (submission type: EAMT2022 User). Anonymisation is not required in the User track submissions.


- **(P) Product/Project Description** (2 pages, including references)

    - Tools for machine translation, computer aided translation, and the like (including commercial products and open-source software). The authors should be ready to present the tools in the form of demos or posters during the conference;
    - Research projects related to machine translation. The authors should be ready to present the projects in the form of posters during the conference. This follows on from the successful ‘project villages’ held at the last EAMT conferences.

Abstracts should be formatted according to the templates specified below. Anonymization is not required. The abstracts should be no longer than 2 pages (including references), and submitted as PDF files to the [EasyChair EAMT 2022](https://easychair.org/account/signin?l=fy2cUipEkkWabcBD82YuJU#) page (submission type: EAMT2022 Products-Projects).


- **(T) Translators’ Track** (up to 10 pages, including references)

    - Measurements of comparative effort (time/keystrokes/cognitive) in translation practices involving MT and their impact on the profession;
    - Impact of MT on translators’ work: processes, new invoicing methods (for example, using TER for matching), applicability;
    - Psycho-social aspects of MT adoption (ergonomics, motivation, and social impact on the profession);
    - Error analysis and post-editing strategies (including automatic post-editing and automation strategies);
    - The use of translators’ metadata and user activity data in MT development;
    - Freelance translators’ independent use of MT (e.g. for individual productivity and not necessarily a customer requirement);
    - MT and usability;
    - MT in literary, audiovisual, game localisation and creative texts;
    - MT and interpreting;
    - Ethical and confidentiality issues when using MT;
    - MT in various scenarios including health care communication, crisis translation, and climate change;
    - MT in the translation/interpreting classroom.

Accepted translator track papers will be published in the conference proceedings. Please make sure to consult and cite previously published work before submitting your paper.

Submissions should be anonymised, prepared according to the templates below, and no longer than 10 pages (including references). Proposals should be submitted as PDF files to the [EasyChair EAMT 2022](https://easychair.org/account/signin?l=fy2cUipEkkWabcBD82YuJU#) page (submission type: EAMT2022 Translator).


### Deadlines

- Paper submission: March 25, 2022
- Notification to authors: April 22, 2022
- Camera-ready deadline: May 2, 2022
- Author registration: May 2, 2022
- Conference: June 1-3 2022

All deadlines are at 23.59 CEST.


### Paper templates

- LaTex
- Microsoft Word
- LibreOffice/OpenOffice.org
- PDF
